# Stitch Calculator

Web app built with HTML, CSS, JS and React

## Video Intro Link: https://youtu.be/vXsXxxX0NPM

## About

The stitch calculator was created to assist knitters and crocheter's with up or down sizing patterns to better suit their needs. Most knit and crochet patterns come with a total number of stitches for a row or round. If the user wants to change the total number of stitches (to size up or down clothing, for example), a calculation needs to be performed to ensure that the new total will work with any repeats in the pattern.

For example, if one section of the pattern repeats every 4 stitches, another every 10, and another every 5; the total must be a multiple of 20 stitches to not cutoff any repeat.

## Code explanation

### Choices

I wanted the app to intially only show the user a question on how many repeats are in the pattern they are working on and load that number of input fields after a submit button is clicked. React componenents seemed like the best way to accomplish this.

### Javascript files

App.js and index.js were created using create-react-app. These files were modified to remove the placeholders that were there after initial setup and create a main to insert the calculator component into. I created calculator.js to hold the Calculator and Quantity classes. The Quantity class renders the intial form that is shown and asks the user how many repeats are in their pattern (called quantity). When the input field is changed, a function runs to update a variable with that response. On submitting the form, the updated variable is passed up to the Calculator class.

The Calculator class receives the quantity and loops that many times to create an array of numbers. The array is then mapped to create an input element with a key of the number. When the input elements are changed, a function runs to update an new array with the responses (called repeats). On clicking the submit button, a function runs to perform the calculation. The values of the repeat array are multiplied to get the max. The max is dividing by each item in the repeat array to start its loop, and is sent as the conditional for the loop. Each value in the 1st array is compared against the next array, looking for a match. After the matches are found, and stored in a match array. The match array is compared against the next array. Any previous matches that are not in the next Array are removed from the match array. Once all of the repeats are looped over, the first item in the match array is rendered as the result.

### CSS Files

Bootstrap was used to style the buttons on the page. The index.css and app.css files were generated by create-react-app. Minimal changes were made to reduce the size of the header, so there would be space for the main element that i created without scrolling. Calculator.css was created and used to change background colors, provide a class to hide the second form and submit button, provide padding and margin, reduce the overall width.
